---
layout: page
title: "WP10 (JRA3): Climate Data Infrastructure software stack developments"
# subheadline: ISENES3 Work Summary
# teaser: The work we do in ISENES3
header:
   image_fullwidth: "header_homepage_13.jpg"
permalink: "/wp10/"
categories:
    - design
tags:
    - design
    - background color
    - header
#header:
    #background-color: "#186F4D"
header:
    title: Work Package 10 (WP10)
    background-color: "#0B59FF;"  # dark blue
    #caption: This is a caption for the header image with link
    #caption_url: https://unsplash.com/
    #image_fullwidth: "banniere_about_is-enes.jpg"

---

This Work Package will evolve and consolidate the ENES climate data infrastructure software stack according to the overall project objective #3, IS-ENES3 will support the exploitation of model data by both the earth system science community and the climate change impacts community. Driven by user requirements gathered in WP5/NA4, WP10/JRA3 will design and develop the software stack regarding the key services offered by the ENES CDI in WP7/VA2 and deployed at European data centres.

The involved software components are developed and maintained as open source efforts by the IS-ENES partner institutes as well as the international ESGF developer community. This WP will address key software components related to the data infrastructure like data distribution, processing, vocabulary management, documentation and impact study tools. It will also address the data access/processing for the climate impact research and modelling community, ensuring significant societal impacts. The activities will be performed by also taking into consideration efforts on-going in the wider European ‘data’ ecosystem and will look forward to the EOSC roadmap and evolution as well as to the Copernicus landscape.

The main goals of this Work Package are to:

- Systematically improve and consolidate the IS-ENES CDI software stack as a basis for a sustainable, streamlined and scalable climate model data distribution solution for users in the climate modelling as well as climate impact research and modelling communities;

- Provide an interoperable and flexible computing layer supporting scientific data analysis and processing within the infrastructure, by evolving existing solutions towards an integrated set of processing related service offerings for end users (from climate researchers to climate impact research and modelling community including long tail end users);

- Support interoperability of data files and archives for automated data processing through improved and extended standards and metadata;

- Evolve the Climate4Impact platform (C4I http://climate4impact.eu) towards a climate data analytics portal for impact scientists. This is done by providing advanced data processing services and data access services in the C4I portal. The functionalities will be made available through user friendly interfaces (e.g., tailored search interfaces, guided wizards, Jupyter notebooks with use case examples);

- Maintain and develop the ES-DOC international documentation infrastructure to support CMIP6 and other MIPs as well as expand the scope of documentation to new areas for the climate modelling process, including model evaluation.
